---
layout: post
title:  "TIL what is OpenMP"
date:   2023-07-25 20:35:00 +0200
categories: [OpenMP, "Proportional control"]
---
TIL Ctrl-R trick of using `history` in Linux [How to use the history command in Linux](https://opensource.com/article/18/6/history-command). `history -d <line number>` removes a line from history and `history -c` clears history. `!sudo` searches in history last command starting from "sudo" and reruns it, while `!sudo:p` just displays found command without running it. `!?echo` searching and runs last command having substring "echo".

TIL what is [OpenMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenMP).

> OpenMP (Open Multi-Processing) is an application programming interface (API) that supports multi-platform shared-memory multiprocessing programming in C, C++, and Fortran, on many platforms, instruction-set architectures and operating systems, including Solaris, AIX, FreeBSD, HP-UX, Linux, macOS, and Windows. It consists of a set of compiler directives, library routines, and environment variables that influence run-time behavior.

TIL what is [Proportional control in engineering and process control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proportional_control). Not really learned. Every engineer intuitively understands and uses proportional control not knowing how it's called.

> Proportional control is a type of linear feedback control system in which a correction is applied to the controlled variable, and the size of the correction is proportional to the difference between the desired value (setpoint, SP) and the measured value (process variable, PV).

Read [How to Make Sense of Distributed Processing With Python Daemons](https://betterprogramming.pub/how-to-make-sense-of-distributed-processing-with-python-daemons-586ee12f7f4d).
