---
layout: post
title:  "Read Build settings reference - a detailed list of individual Xcode build settings that control or change the way a target is built"
date:   2024-07-15 21:53:00 +0200
categories: TIL, Xcode
---
Read [Build settings reference - a detailed list of individual Xcode build settings that control or change the way a target is built](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/build-settings-reference). Some drew attention.

Misuse of Grand Central Dispatch
Setting name: CLANG_ANALYZER_GCD
Check for misuses of the Grand Central Dispatch API.

Performance Anti-Patterns with Grand Central Dispatch
Setting name: CLANG_ANALYZER_GCD_PERFORMANCE
Check for Grand Central Dispatch idioms that may lead to poor performance.

EXPERIMENTAL Buffer overflows
Setting name: CLANG_ANALYZER_SECURITY_BUFFER_OVERFLOW_EXPERIMENTAL
Check for potential buffer overflows.

Use of ‘strcpy’ and ‘strcat’
Setting name: CLANG_ANALYZER_SECURITY_INSECUREAPI_STRCPY
Warn on uses of the strcpy and strcat functions, which can result in buffer overflows. Use strlcpy or strlcat instead.

Compress PNG Files
Setting name: COMPRESS_PNG_FILES
If enabled, PNG resource files are compressed as they are copied.

Setting name: GCC_ENABLE_PASCAL_STRINGS
Recognize and construct Pascal-style string literals. Its use in new code is discouraged.
Pascal string literals take the form "\pstring" . The special escape sequence \p denotes the Pascal length byte for the string, and will be replaced at compile time with the number of characters that follow. The \p may only appear at the beginning of a string literal, and may not appear in wide string literals or as an integral constant.

Setting name: GCC_ENABLE_SSE3_EXTENSIONS
Specifies whether the binary uses the builtin functions that provide access to the SSE3 extensions to the IA-32 architecture.

Setting name: GCC_ENABLE_SSE41_EXTENSIONS
Specifies whether the binary uses the builtin functions that provide access to the SSE4.1 extensions to the IA-32 architecture.

Setting name: GCC_ENABLE_SSE42_EXTENSIONS
Specifies whether the binary uses the builtin functions that provide access to the SSE4.2 extensions to the IA-32 architecture.

App Can Run Independently of Companion iPhone App
Setting name: INFOPLIST_KEY_WKRunsIndependentlyOfCompanionApp
When GENERATE_INFOPLIST_FILE is enabled, sets the value of the WKRunsIndependentlyOfCompanionApp key in the Info.plist file to the value of this build setting.

Swift Language Version
Setting name: SWIFT_VERSION
The language version used to compile the target’s Swift code.

Read [Swift 6: Incrementally migrate your Xcode projects and packages](https://www.avanderlee.com/concurrency/swift-6-migrating-xcode-projects-packages/).

TIL how to stash individual files with git: `git stash push [file]` or `git stash push -m "message" [file]` or even `git stash push --patch`
